all right we're back with one of my very
favorite
cloud ceos and good friend nick mendes
ceo of gainsight
um first nick real quick next week we
have a big event coming up
what is it it's the very first very
first
pulse for product people so pulse is our
big conference we do every year
for driving better customer success and
customer experience and product people
are a huge part of that
so this is the first event targeted at
product people that want to drive
great experience in their products
better customer retention and better
growth in their business
it's october 14th to 16th uh online 8
a.m
pacific to noon pacific and you can go
to pulseforproduct.com to learn more
okay i'm excited i think i went to the
very first pulse which was in like a
hotel in san francisco
oh my jaw dropped this was one of the
best events i've been to
so dude you better bring it next week
for pulse product because the regular
pulse has been
like a 10. an inspirational disaster so
i'm not questioning anything
there may be a backstreet boris voice
parody video that's an homage to
product managers that may be happening
so
what are you doing there's so many
digital events these days right what are
you doing to take advantage of digital
for product people next week
yeah three things number one is just try
to keep bringing that same
like i talked about the video that same
vibe of the fun that you want to do in
person and try to bring that online and
you'll see a lot of that
number two is really try to create more
ways for people to connect i mean it's
amazing
the chat like chat is so basic but
whether it's in zoom or
a virtual event there's so much
connection that happens on number three
we're actually trying to practice what
we preach we've embedded our own product
analytics technology gainsight px
into the event experience and we're
basically personalizing the event for
each person so
based on what you've done and where
you've gone you'll get pop-up messages
to take you to the next place and
kind of gamified it a little bit uh it
should be fast that's taking the bar up
it better work because it sounds pretty
good
i think i think it will all right last
one quickly
what's the top trend in building
products for 2021 what's the what's the
top of mind uh
biggest thing we're thinking about
number one thing is in the last 10 years
customer experience and customer
retention was the job of the customer
success team
now product teams are getting super
engaged in how do i drive sticky
features and sticky usage how do i drive
user retention onboarding and use the
product as the best customer success
manager
got it so product and the nexus of
product and customer success
big deal for 221 right huge yeah all
right
so that's awesome we'll see you next
week let's do a quick deeper dive now
great so this is interesting we did uh i
did this
deep dive with our friend darmesh from
hubspot the other day he was talking
about it took them five
years to build awareness for their sales
crm five years
you've we just talked about how sales
and customer success are i mean
product and customer success are
adjacent terrific but how do you get
what have you learned building a second
product how do you expose customers what
are the challenges why did you decide to
do this because it can be a distraction
right
yeah there's so many things there so let
me talk about why and and then the how
we're still learning
so the why was pretty straightforward
which was what we figured out was
customer success
is bigger than just the csm team and you
saw that from running a company and from
investing in companies
the csm team can do so do a bunch of
things they can reach out to customers
they can get feedback they can onboard
them but eventually the product is a
huge part of it like first of all
is the product experience good second of
all is it easy to onboard to try it out
do you have good data on what people are
doing our customer success people said
nick
focus on helping product people they
told us before we got into the space
that's the number one thing they needed
and so we saw that there was a sort of
complimentary technology area
and we needed to get into it we bought a
company that was very very early stage
integrated with our platform that's now
called gainsight px
and i think in some ways that was the
easy part the hard part is what you're
alluding to which is okay great you have
this awesome technology it's all
integrated
but you have a totally different
community of people um it's a different
type of use person right so csms and
product people are different they
go to different events they have
different ways they want to engage you
know customer success people probably a
little bit more
you want to spend time on you know
chatting with people and product people
probably in general tend to want to just
try things out themselves right and so
for us it's been like
figuring out how to have a totally
different engagement model with these
people
a different way to market to them a
different way to sell to them and we're
still figuring it out but it's been a
real big learning for us
but let's just dig on that one point for
saying that's interesting so of course
think of your average customer success
team what's the number one thing they
want
better product like customers
complaining about a feature that doesn't
work like they hoped
something wasn't delivered on time it
does the integration isn't quite what
they'd hope product like
they would like a lot of things but if
you make a real cs leader happy they
just want the
10 20 things fixed right so of course
that would be their next like forget i
don't even need the the my own tool
make the product better that's it that's
nice
but so that makes sense from uh and i
call this a
whiteboard strategy it makes total sense
on the whiteboard but why does the
market want that
why does builders are at a different
time
in the funnel they're actually
pre-funnel in many cases yeah i think
about product people
they're before marketers they're they're
way early and we all work together why
why should one vendor connect these
disparate parts
of of even if cs wants it yeah it's
interesting i think we have to start
with what the customer wants
right because that's the north star and
what's interesting is
clients today they're they're sold one
thing
they're implemented with a different
thing and the product is a third thing
and they're
and you can tell right when you work
with a lot of vendors you're like okay
so these are totally different
organizations right
and that experience doesn't end up being
great and there therefore you have all
these issues like for example
you know a sales person pitch me all
these objectives and outcomes of what
i'm gonna get out of the product and
then
i actually get to my first onboarding
call the cs team's asking me so what are
your goals what are your objectives then
i
log into the product it's not obvious
how i'm going to achieve those
objectives it's like three different
things
you need an integrated experience
between sales product and cs that's like
that's the
customer view is they want that
integrated journey
now from a product perspective what i'm
finding is product people
don't want to just be feature factories
right just ship a feature and just go to
the next one i mean
that might be what they've been turned
into because of the inertia of the world
but they actually are excited about
saying i'm driving adoption i'm driving
retention i'm driving lifetime value
they want to be aligned to what
kind of boards want and you've probably
heard about this concept of
product led growth this idea that
product teams
eventually aren't just the top of the
funnel they're the whole funnel
they're actually building building stuff
that you could try out online that
drives marketing leads that drives
engagement that drives the sale that
drives the onboarding and the retention
right and i think the product team is
the whole funnel in the future
yeah i i i get a little skeptical about
buzzwords like product-led growth but i
love the idea
that the products can use software to
own kpis and outcomes
that extend longitudinally right they're
not throwing features into the funnel
but that they they are connected through
the lifetime of the customer pro all
product leaders are but it gets
it it's hard to measure that kpi
sometimes in product right that is
interesting right
it is yeah and i by the way i understand
the skepticism on some of the
terminology because it will evolve
but i think the thing that's definitely
true is products job is no longer just
shipping features that's that's for sure
the old world that's the big insight
right maybe in some ways it's
interesting
and maybe it's in its own way product is
where cs was five years ago
for different reasons for different
reasons product is the most mature
function in software other than coding
but product being more than shipping
features for sas
in particular for b2b that's like a
profound shift isn't it
totally 100 and you i think you see it
in your younger companies you invest in
they already have that insight product
is so central to everything
what's interesting is the older
companies are having to rethink what
product management is
for this new world yeah i remember not
to name names but when i was a vp in a
fortune 500 tech company
a lot of these product teams were in not
only were they in different buildings
but you couldn't talk directly to them
you would ship them a spec like one team
would create a spec you would ship it to
another team and then you would get
software outputted to you
and the people that outputted it to you
you would never speak to them again
until they were shipped another spec
right i mean that
it's crazy but that is the way software
was built in the old
and today maybe right well it's
interesting because that company you
mentioned it's funny they're one of our
big customers and yes uh
px and they're embracing this new model
so i totally agree that's the old world
and it is
a big change though it's a big change
right so a lot of software to sell
um so just a couple let's let's now
let's learn okay so great so
so how do you sell two products to the
same customer base
um and how do you do it how do you do it
from a conversation basis and
do you have two sales teams so this has
been such an interesting like adventure
of
yeah so we started with two sales teams
and we had like merge it all together
and now we're kind of making a little
more separate again
i think it's like goldilocks where
you're trying to find the perfect middle
because what you're trying to find is
you want the leverage and like strength
of oh you we have these relationships
we have this brand we've got these
customers but you also want the agility
and the specificity of having a team
focused on a persona what we learn
is that the product persona wants to buy
in a very different way right they don't
want like 5
17 different conversations and demos and
meetings a lot of times they want to be
able to try it out like our product you
can try it out online
and and they want assistance from sales
they don't necessarily want a sales
meeting
right and so give you an example just
from two days ago we we uh so we have a
large client
uh big public company we they're a
client of ours on the cs side so they
use our cs technology they're looking at
our px
technology we did a session where we had
all the product leaders for all the
different divisions on one
virtual meeting it was great 30 40
people on there and
what was interesting was we're giving
the pitch of opx or a product or
whatever
but they're engaging on the chat and
they're literally talking to sales
people they're like okay what's the
price per user
how many users are there what can i get
a link to a free trial they were going
all the way down the funnel because they
don't want any of the
powerpoint you know kind of the high
level stuff they just want to go
straight to what the product does
what the api is like is there a rest api
all that kind of stuff
so we found that it's a really different
engagement model and so what we created
is a specialist team
that works with our main team but is
very focused on talking to that
specific buyer and they're kind of an
overlay so both sides get comped
but the specialist team is good with
that technical buyer
who wants to just get to the product and
skip the slides basically
so the specialists are almost like
essies uh 2.0 right they know that's
yeah
they're much closer to an sc yeah than a
sales rep
yep okay and it's interesting so it
sounds like
the the your pr you did this just the
other day
and your customers trust you enough um
every ceo wants to think this but your
customers trust you enough but then
when they're exposed to a new product
offering they're open to it right
they're like this is a vendor i trust
what have you learned from that and how
also how do you
make sure your brand covers a new
product area
those are two great questions so what
i've learned is that you know it's like
any vendor once
when you have a uh when you do a good
job in one area and if there's
connectivity to other areas that add
sort of differentiated value it's not
just
a random product but it's something that
ties together your clients will give you
a shot
for sure i mean it's and that's where
good net retention comes from and how
happy i know i know you might know this
how happy do they have to be to really
give you that shot we all say this right
but game you know how many customers
does gainslight have today
about seven 750 customers roughly okay
well they're all
i know they're all happy but some are
even happier
than others is there a line have you
learned whether where they will
they'll be even hyper receptive to an
offering and maybe there's a line below
where they don't want to
can you have you measured that or can
you sense it yeah yeah totally it's
interesting
so maybe non-intuitive so for sure if
they're super happy they're very
receptive to stuff and that like i was
on a call with a customer yesterday and
they're like oh we love your stuff and
should we look at replacing a certain
vendor with px i was like yeah
that sounds good um and so that's that's
true
but i think what's a little
counter-intuitive is when a customer
hasn't gotten value or isn't happy
sometimes actually this extra thing can
actually
tip the scales um so in our case px
gives you really good data about product
usage
and the cs team often can't do a lot
with game site without having data about
product usage so this actually
is a really important piece of glue and
so a lot of our customers where let's
say they struggled with things
they're actually open to it now will
they pay full price for it well they
want you to give them
credit for some of the lost time those
commercial things will always happen
but they will absolutely that is
interesting to do things yeah that's a
second product adds value to the first
clearly
and the the customer saw the value in
your product but they haven't unlocked
it enough
you may be able to increase your mps
increase everything because they want to
give you that extra shot right it's like
the renewal you get that shocks you got
the renewal
but they still believe that's it and i
think the key thing is
we always talk about outcomes and
experiences so i'm talking about client
that like
still likes you but isn't getting a lot
of value which by the way everyone has
those
for lots of reasons org changes whatever
right they need it and that's
yeah yeah what's that they need a term
these type of customers
yeah exactly they do they are positive
but you just haven't quite unlocked the
value for them yet but they still want
it
right they will they will look at now
let's say the customer really doesn't
like you
the experience has been that's where
it's harder to go sell them more stuff
because they just want to get out of the
relationship
so the key thing that's why you talk
about so much the key thing is like
just keep working on that experience
even if things aren't perfect
um and you can do that and that's what
lets you sell more things and
expand your footprint yeah it is a good
that middle category it needs a name
right this yeah customers we
underestimate them
we underestimate the second chances we
get we underestimate the shot to renewal
we underestimate
getting on a zoom with them today right
and listening the power
like they're not lost are they the ones
that are stuck these sort of stuff
by the way even the ones that are lost
technically they turned they're still
ones that will come back
i mean the number of boomerangs you're
gonna get if you're an entrepreneur it's
it's gonna
it'll make you feel much more confident
when you get those customers back
because
sometimes it just wasn't the right time
for them it wasn't you it was them that
type of thing
yeah you just have to start thinking in
terms of half decades to experience yeah
you have to settle in
that i'll get you in 2025 and then you
will get them back right but 20 20 21
might
might be tough it's a long journey yeah
all right last couple questions on
product but but um i want your
your your tactical answers not your not
your ceo pie in the sky
right yeah is um i mean you know what
the amazing thing about software it's
still hard to build
yes all the tools
all the apis we get out there then we
add more complexity on top of them right
all these things didn't didn't make our
lives easier
um what what are we seeing in 2021 what
have you learned from px how how can we
build software better in the future
uh is it even possible it will always be
hard to maybe that
keep keeps us in jobs right i don't know
yeah yeah i think
i think part of it is this idea that you
don't have to design
the entire experience in the software
with all of these javascript embedded
things
px being one of them there's a lot of
different things out there you can do a
lot
now outside of the core code and that
lets you actually innovate faster so
whether you think about
a b testing with like a launch darkly or
a split or something like that
where you can actually test outside the
product or you think about our world of
in-app
engagements and surveys or there's so
many different things out there
that let you innovate without having to
change your code and that allows you to
do things like
trying out new stuff uh you know
prompting users to different areas
experimenting and so i think that a
concept of experimentation
without having to rev the code all the
time is a big idea
got it and related to that just the
penultimate question
now that you're talking to so many
customers on the product side what are
their
biggest head like the real headaches
what are they banging their heads
against the table
in 2021 what do they want solved next
year like the real pain
the real pain is the uh i started my
career as a product manager a long time
ago i think it was hard back then i
think it's really hard now
because of the volume of feedback that
you get from so many channels right so
you always have the sales people telling
you what features you needed right but
now you've got customer success people
telling you and
obviously you have support and you have
the analytics coming in
and you've got stuff from like your
online community so much data analytics
all right so many databases
and then you've got your ceo coming in
with the random idea of what he or she
wants product wise right
and i think that the the challenge right
now is product people are just
like flooded with feedback but then on
the other side with
this sprint model of two-week sprints
there's so much work to work with
engineering there's just so much
day-to-day engineering work yeah so
you've got this thing where like rock in
a hard place big time for pms
that is interesting so so an exponential
growth
in just product feedback and data to
manage and prioritize
and pressure to ship faster are we all
under that pressure right
yeah and do you find just the
penultimate
b do you find that because of this
customers are more demanding
in terms of when they want those
enterprise style commits to come are
they still willing to wait two to three
quarters for what you
what the ceo agreed to in the contract i
i think
i think the customers that's well said i
think
customers are are willing to wait but
they
want certainty that is more than the
agile model delivers this is a real hard
problem
they're used to the old model of hey
it's going to ship in q3 of 2022 and
it's like
i don't know what i'm shipping next week
this is agile we're not
trying to set the future and so i think
that but the client view is actually
reasonable because they have these
training cycles they have the
if you have sell to big customers they
have to train their users they have to
do change management
and so there's this constant battle of
like agile
not wanting to have date commits and
customers wanting date commits and you
have
this just back and forth all the time
that's a big challenge
yeah maybe at some point with software
we have to do slas
in those contracts yeah right i think
there's probably enough soft commits
like we will get we will
and we will literally track everything
yeah and you will have an sla and look
we're just going to get
there's a there's a penalty like an sla
not that if an s really helps you
because you just want this the site to
stay up
but maybe it maybe it comes right i
think it's a good point jason because i
think another thing i've learned about
sas is
when you're a sas customer you are
buying the roadmap
like in an on-prem customer you're
buying the product and you might use the
roadmap but you might just stay on that
old version right
but in sas you're buying the roadmap and
so therefore the roadmap is actually
very strategic
it is all right last question i want to
tie it back up to
gain sight at a high level in customers
overall
and i wrote this question as a challenge
i was thinking about it because this is
the nature of software we
you and i have known each other since
just when you joined gain sites that's a
long time
2013 or something like that and cs was
new it's old and new right
we've been making customers happy but as
a science we were both passionate about
it right so
totally with all this work and all this
stuff and all these tools and dashboards
and analytics
are customers happier have we made
customers happier are our mps
our csat higher are we by being more
attentive has it worked
um or have we just created more work for
ourselves do we know
yeah i think that objectively we have as
an industry definitely
made customers happier and actually made
them retain longer and grow
you just look at it the net retention
rates of public companies now
versus where you know a few years ago
what's great in that that's a good point
it's 140 percent now in the enterprise
even as crazy the buyer is raised so
much
nps when i look at entrepreneurs now
their
their like expectations on nps net
promoter score are so much higher than
they were before
because the expectation on product
experience is so much higher i think
cus clients are learning okay this is a
different engagement model with this
customer success thing now
i think clients would tell i've talked
to a lot of cios who are clients of csms
i think they say it's not all created
equal like some vendors are just taking
their old stuff and dressing it up as
customer success or whatever
and so there's there's a bit of a kind
of like cloud washing if you remember
that where everyone says they're a cloud
company
yeah it's the same thing here where
everyone says they're doing customer
success
but the best are doing it really well
and it's it's showing
it is that is a good one to close if you
look at a lot of startups they all want
60 70 nps right whether they're
calculated properly is a different
question that's right
right and then we look at everyone we
look at everyone from pagerduty to
datadog on down they have
130 140 150 some of it is is api based
so it's gonna be automatic but put it
aside those are jaw dropping numbers
aren't they those are jaw dropping
numbers
it's it's different yeah things have
gotten better so we all have to
sign up for this one that we all have to
sign up for customers
that are far happier than our last job
like that has to be our goal our next
group they have to be freaking be
happier
and the public markets have showed us
it's there there's no excuses anymore
are there that's the
that's the biggest difference from when
we started working together there's no
excuses anymore
there's no it's all out in the open too
with things like g2 and other you know
review websites right
it's just all out there all right nick
this was great any last thought you want
to leave us on
on any of this no i mean i just say if
you're a product person
if you're watching definitely check out
the event but more broadly i think
there's an opportunity for you to really
have an even bigger strategic impact in
your company so i'm excited to
have people level up to the next level
it's exciting